Mahdi Azarafrooz
PhD in Elec.& Comp. Eng.

Sunnyvale, CA
At the moment my research/industry interests include the application of online machine learning and randomized algorithms in complex networks. Ideally networks where the classical methods of analyzing the generated data fails.
Work Experience
MTS2 | Data Scientist
Pivotal Software Inc. | Real Time Intelligence R&D - Palo Alto, CA
June 2014 to Present
Responsibilities 
I am responsible for the design and implementation of stream mining solutions suitable for the fast data generated from Telecommunications industry. This experience has exposed me to various software platforms including in-memory computing and high performance Inter-Thread Messaging Libraries . More importantly it has improved my knowledge of fast data analytics and its practical limitations. At Pivotal it has been an honor to be a part of highly distributed and interactive team of agile developers, whom are located around the world. This environment has fostered my communication skills to grow exponentially.  
 
Accomplishments 
Research and development of suitable stream mining solutions for the Pivotal RTI4T including: 
a) Designed and implemented a distributed online learning mechanism for detecting the spatio-temporal patterns of cell tower data: In order to address the runtime scalability of the established model, a novel exact solution to the learning framework has been proposed which adjusts the parameters of the distributed environment along with the learning process. 
b) Created and tested a python execution of a novel algorithm for detecting Delay Sensitive Applications: The main learning feature is the stochastic properties of inter-arrival time of the TCP packets which has been extracted using a memory efficient onepass Haar wavelet decomposition. 
 
Skills Used 
Hierarchical Dirichlet Process, IHMM, Gibbs/Metropolis Sampling, Distributed/Online learning, Java Multi-thread Programming
Research Scientist
Business Intell. and Analytic Dep. of Stevens Inst.
March 2014 to August 2014
Accomplishments 
Wrote a research paper focused on the design of suitable ensemble learning modules in the streaming environments based on MOA project. 
 
Skills Used 
Java, Machine learning in streaming environments, MOA ( Weka)
Summer intern
Niksun Inc - Princeton, NJ
May 2013 to August 2013
Accomplishments 
I was part of a team that worked on an automated testing framework for the cloud automation project.  
 
Skills Used 
Java, Hibernate, Unix and Shell script.
Research and teaching assistant
Stevens Inst. of Tech - Hoboken, NJ
2010 to 2013
Accomplishments 
Finished my thesis was on “Game Theory, Learning and Complexity Decomposition in Cognitive Networks”.
Research Engineer
Research valley at Tehran university
2009 to 2010
Tehran Iran 
 
Consulting project on cryptographic foundations in wireless systems.
Education
Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering
Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ
MSc in IT
Iran University of Science and Technology - Tehrān
Skills
INTERMEDIATE LEVEL: Java, Python, Matlab, MOA(Weka) BASIC LEVEL: Spring Framework/Integration, GemFire (In-memory Computing), LMAX Reactor (fast data applications), AMQP, git, Linux
Links
http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=XlKEVUEAAAAJ&hl=en&authuser=1
http://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=219224588&trk=nav_responsive_tab_profile_pic
https://sites.google.com/site/azarafroozgraphgametheory/
Additional Information
Published papers  
 
M.Azarafrooz and M.Daneshamand, "Meta expert learning and efficient pruning for evolving data streams", To appear on IEEE Internet of Things Journal 2014. 
 
M.Azarafrooz and R.Chandramouli, "Distributed Spectrum Sharing Using Congestion Advertisement", EAI Transactions on Wireless Spectrum 2014. 
 
M. Azarafrooz, R. Chandramouli and K. P. Subbalakshmi "Reciprocity, Fairness and Learning in Medium Access Control Games", Journal of Computer and Communications (COMCOM), 2014. 
 
M. Azarafrooz, R. Chandramouli and K. P. Subbalakshmi “ Reciprocity and Fairness in Random Access Game”, ICCCN 2013, Bahamas.  
 
M. Azarafrooz, R. Chandramouli, “ Distributed Learning in Secondary Spectrum Sharing Graphical Game”, IEEE GLOBECOM 2011, Texas.  
 
M. Azarafrooz and A. Falahati,“ An Improved Multi-path Key Establishment under REM in Wireless Sensor Networks”, ICSNC 2010, France.  
 
M. Azarafrooz and A. Falahati,“ Mitigation of control channel jamming via combinatorial key distribution”, ISGS 2010, Portugal  
 
H. Jamali, M. Azarafrooz and B. Abolhassani,“ A New Adaptive Power Optimization Scheme for Target Tracking Wireless Sensor Networks”, IEEE SIEA 2009  
 
Selected projects: 
Designed and Implemented the distributed learning methods in Markov random fields: 
 
I have Implemented and designed two novel algorithms: Responsive learning automata and exponential no-regret learning algorithms. I have simulated the suitability of these algorithms in Markov random fields using Matlab simulation environment. 
 
Simulated the influence matrix of learning interactions: 
 
In this project I simulated the idea of Gibbs sampling in learning of the maximum independent sets of a graph, using Java environment. The mathematical skills related to this project include maximum entropy, maximum likelihood and variational method optimizations.  
 
Provided a predictive/analytical model for a competitive reality TV Show: 
 
Python software was used to extract the popularity index of the players of the game using the tweet records. I formed a game theoretical framework to justify the outcomes of the show. More analytical study was conducted over the collect data using R. 
 
Designed and simulated a novel low complexity cryptographic algorithm: 
 
A novel low complexity technique ( both communication and computational complexity ) for designing high entropic keyestablishment schemes has been proposed and the performance has been simulated via Matlab simulation environment. 
 
RECENT ACADEMIC ACTIVITIES: 
Program Committee of Big Data and Stream Analytics Workshop @ SIAM DATA MINING 2015: https://sites.google.com/site/sdm2015bsa/ 
Online Instructor for Introduction to multimedia networking course. 
http://www.webcampus.stevens.edu/Mahdi-Azarafrooz-Faculty.aspx